
inspiration project dealt with 3 different matrix representations of trees,
spectra are invariant under relabeling in all of these representations, which
are simply conjugation by some permutation matrix (similar by definition)
however all of these representations fail to be fair representations:
  there are trees with different shape and the same spectrum
A motivation for distinguishing these trees would be measuring their distance,
perhaps as the norm of the difference between the spectra

Another inspiration shows that trees can be represented as algebras, as the
span of the matrices generated by (Rel(a, b) iff sup(a, b) = x)
for fixed node x in tree, each x gives a different matrix, their span is a
commutative algebra

then being a commutative algebra, each basis is simultaneously diagonalizable,
in other words, a linear combination of the basis matrices has a spectrum
corresponding to the same linear combination of spectra of the basis matrices.
This makes the spectrum an appealing representation, since as before
relabelling the tree shouldnt change the spectrum, but merely permute the
eigenvectors.

One consideration with spectral representations, is how to order the
eigenvalues, and their corresponding eigenvectors.
When saying that two matrices have the same eigenvalues, what one means is that
there is an ordering of one matrices eigenvalues that correspond identically
with the eigenvalues of the other matrix. This will account for the
multiplicity of each eigenvalue.
This suggests 3 ways of canonicalizing the spectra, one is to check the
necessary condition that each eigenvalue in the first has at least one
corresponding eigenvalue in the second, by representing the spectra as a set of
eigenvalues. This shall be immediately discarded, since it could so easily
compromise the injectivity of the representation, since {1, 1, 2} = {1, 2, 2}

The other two ways are to sort the list (choose a canonical rearrangement) and
equivalently to use a multiset.

Sorting the list will definitely work for the single matrix representations
above, but for the algebra representation, this would compromise the motivating
linearity property that emerges from the simultaneous diagonalizability of the
algebras.
In particular (1, 1) - (0, 1) = (1, 0) which isn't sorted.
sorting the result will restore the equality, but at this point the set of
spectra is looking a lot less convenient, though it could still be of interest.

Without sorting, the image of the algebra forms a vector space, whose dimension
could range from 1 to n-1 where n is the number of leaves on the trees in
question.
Since the matrices are simultaneously diagonalizable, we can pick a single set
of eigenvectors in advance, and use this to compute all the spectra, resulting
in a single vector space, however different permutations of these eigenvectors
will be valid and will permute the coordinates in C^n.

It is unclear how to apply this to get a distance formula..

so the question of identifying similar spectra becomes a question of similar
vector spaces of spectra... from this perspective it is clear that sorting no
longer works.

In any case then the important stuff:
- subspace has at most n-1 dimensions
- subspace could have less if there is degeneracy
- in particular if two subtrees have the same shape then their roots will have
  the same corresponding matrices.
- further all algebras of a given n will have one consistent eigenvalue of 0,
- this means that if there is no degeneracy the image will always be C^n-1
- this means the representation is definitely not injective, however the
  dimension will still be a measure of degeneracy
- also degenerate trees may have distinct images?




